
### Upload Tab

In this section, you can upload your data in .csv format. The example
data, which are zircons from [Ballard et al.
(2002)](http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s00410-002-0402-5), are
automatically loaded.

Please use the upload button to load your data. The column names of the
REE should include only the element name in ppm (e.g., `La`, not
`La_ppm`). **Large files will take longer to process**.

Any additional column will be added at the end of the table. A column
with the name `rowid` is likely to give an error, please rename or
exclude this column.

The chondrite values selector allows to choose the reference of those
values. Only those from [Palme and Oâ€™Neill
(2014)](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780080959757002011)
and [McDonough and Sun
(1995)](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0009254194001404)
are included in this version.

In the model variables panel, you can choose the REE that will be used
for fitting the model. However, La, Pr, Eu, Ce and Y are automatically
deselected as they do not fit the regression and their inclusion would
negatively affect the model fit.

The R<sup>2</sup> plot shows the distribution of the R-squared statistic
for each model (one model per zircon grain).

The boxplots show the ratios between the calculated and the measured
values for each element. The horizontal line is a reference for ratio =
1.

The last panel is a table with summary statistics of the ratio between
calculated and measured data.

### Data

This feature enables individual exploration of the data. On the right
side, there is a table that displays the uploaded data, along with the
calculated values and model measurements such as R-squared, slope,
intercept, or parabola parameters. It also shows the calculated
concentrations and the ratio of calculated to measured values. Clicking
on any row in the table will display the REE pattern and its
corresponding values in the left panels.

If necessary, you can utilize an interactive scatterplot to examine your
data. By hovering over the dots, the ID can be displayed, allowing you
to filter it in the table.

### Download

On this tab, you can download your data once the calculations are
complete.
